---
layout: default
title: Books — Enjoying Web Development with Wicket
---

Enjoying Web Development with Wicket is written by Kent Tong and is self
published.

## Description ##

If you'd like to create AJAX web-based applications easily, then this book is
for you. More importantly, it shows you how to do that with joy and feel good
about your own work! You don't need to know servlet or JSP while your
productivity will be much higher than using servlet or JSP directly. This is
possible because we're going to use a library called Wicket that makes
complicated stuff simple and elegant.

How does it do that? First, it allows the web designer to work on the static
contents and design of a page while allowing the developer to work on the
dynamic contents of that page without stepping on each other's toes; Second,
it allows developers to work with high level concepts such as objects and
properties instead of HTTP URLs, query parameters or HTML string values;
Third, it comes with powerful components such as calendar, tree and data grid
and it allows you to create your own components for reuse in your own project.

However, don't take our word for it! This book will quickly walk you through
real world use cases to show you how to use Wicket and leave it up to you to
judge.

## About the author ##

Kent Ka Iok Tong is the manager of the IT department of the Macau Productivity
and Technology Transfer Center. With a Master degree in Computer Science from
the New South Wales University, Sydney, Australia and having won the "Macao
Programming Competition (Open Category)" in 1992, Mr. Tong has been involved
in professional software development, training and project management since
1993. He is the author of several popular books on web technologies including 
Developing Web Services with Apache CXF and Axis2. He has also created an open
source project "Wicket Page Test" for unit testing Wicket pages.

## Book details ##

<table>
	<tr>
		<th>Title</th>
		<td>Enjoying Web Development with Wicket (2nd edition)</td>
	</tr>
	<tr>
		<th>Author</th>
		<td>Kent Tong</td>
	</tr>
	<tr>
		<th>Version covered</th>
		<td>Wicket 1.4</td>
	</tr>
	<tr>
		<th>URL</th>
		<td><a href="http://www.agileskills2.org/EWDW/">Enjoying Web Development with Wicket</a></td>
	</tr>
	<tr>
		<th>Paperback</th>
		<td>~358 pages</td>
	</tr>
	<tr>
		<th>Date</th>
		<td>April, 2010</td>
	</tr>
	<tr>
		<th>Language</th>
		<td>English</td>
	</tr>
	<tr>
		<th>ISBN-10</th>
		<td>0557522463</td>
	</tr>
	<tr>
		<th>ISBN-13</th>
		<td>978-0557522460</td>
	</tr>
	<tr>
		<th>Buy</th>
		<td><a href="http://www.agileskills2.org/EWDW/">AgileSkills</a></td>
	</tr>
</table>
		

